Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
If you want more labs like this, I highly
recommend Boson Software’s NetSim for CCNA.
NetSim is a network simulator like Packet
Tracer, but it’s far more powerful and contains
over 100 detailed guided labs covering the
CCNA exam topics.
If you want to get NetSim, follow the link
in the description.
In this lab we’ll practice some of the dynamic
ARP inspection configurations we looked at
in the lecture video.
Unfortunately, packet tracer doesn’t support
all of the DAI commands we covered, but we
can still set up the basics.
Before that, we’ll configure R1 as a DHCP
server and also enable DHCP snooping on SW1
and SW2 for review.
So, let’s get right into step 1 and configure
R1 as a DHCP server.
ENABLE.
CONF T. First, I’ll configure the range
of excluded addresses, since it’s configured
separately from
the DHCP pool.
IP DHCP EXCLUDED-ADDRESS 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.9.
Okay, now the pool.
IP DHCP POOL POOL1.
First, the address range.
NETWORK 192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0.
And then I’ll configure R1 as the default
gateway.
DEFAULT-ROUTER 192.168.1.1.
Okay, that’s all I’ll configure on R1.
Next up, I’ll configure DHCP snooping on
SW1 and SW2.
I don’t specify the exact settings you should
use, so let’s just configure the basics.
Enable it, and configure the appropriate trusted
ports.
SW1 first.
ENABLE.
CONF T. IP DHCP SNOOPING.
That command enables it globally, but it also
needs to be enabled per VLAN.
IP DHCP SNOOPING VLAN 1.
And then I’ll remove option 82.
NO IP DHCP SNOOPING INFORMATION OPTION.
Finally, I’ll configure G0/2 as a trusted
port.
INTERFACE G0/2.
IP DHCP SNOOPING TRUST.
EXIT.
Now, as for G0/1 it could be either trusted
or untrusted.
Untrusted is more secure since it could catch
any DHCP messages that might have slipped
past SW2, perhaps due to a misconfiguration.
But it also takes more processing power on
SW1.
I’ll leave it as untrusted as I recommended
in the DHCP snooping videos.
Okay, now SW2.
ENABLE.
CONF T. IP DHCP SNOOPING.
IP DHCP SNOOPING VLAN 1.
And remove option 82.
NO IP DHCP SNOOPING INFORMATION OPTION.
And then I’ll trust G0/1.
INTERFACE G0/1 IP DHCP SNOOPING TRUST.
EXIT.
Okay that’s all for DHCP snooping.
Since I’m on SW2, I’ll configure DAI here
first.
IP ARP INSPECTION VLAN 1.
Okay, it’s enabled for VLAN 1.
Now, the instructions say to enable all additional
validation checks, so I’ll do that now.
IP ARP INSPECTION VALIDATE, and let me check
the options.
As I demonstrated in the lecture video, to
enable all three checks you have to enter
them in a single command, although the order
doesn’t matter.
So, DST-MAC, IP, SRC-MAC.
Okay, I’ll confirm in the running config
later.
Now I’ll trust SW2’s G0/1 interface since
it’s connected to SW1.
INTERFACE G0/1.
IP ARP INSPECTION TRUST.
Okay that’s all, so I’ll use END to return
to privileged exec mode.
Let’s check the configuration.
SHOW RUN.
Right here at the top, we can see the DAI
configuration, and the DHCP snooping configuration.
And if I look down at G0/1, it is trusted
for both DHCP snooping and DAI.
Now let’s check a DAI show command.
SHOW IP ARP INSPECTION INTERFACES.
Okay, notice that all interfaces are untrusted
by default, only G0/1 is trusted because we
configured it.
However, there is a difference here.
Rate limiting is enabled at 15 packets per
second on the untrusted ports, but on the
trusted port too.
This is different than what I showed in the
lecture video.
According to Cisco’s documentation, as well
as my own physical and virtual switches that
I tested it on, rate limiting should not be
enabled on trusted ports by default.
So, I’m not sure if this is an error in
packet tracer or perhaps it’s due to a different
IOS version.
But as I said, Cisco documentation states
that rate limiting should be disabled by default
on trusted ports, and my own testing on multiple
switches had the same results, so I think
this is an error in packet tracer.
Anyway, let’s move on to SW1.
I’ll do the same DAI configurations.
IP ARP INSPECTION VLAN 1.
IP ARP INSPECTION VALIDATE DST-MAC, IP, SRC-MAC.
In SW1’s case, I’ll configure both G0/1
and G0/2 as trusted ports.
INTERFACE RANGE G0/1 – 2.
IP ARP INSPECTION TRUST.
END.
Let’s check the config.
SHOW RUN.
There’s the DAI and DHCP snooping configs,
let’s look at the interfaces.
Notice G0/2 is trusted for both DAI and DHCP
snooping, but G0/1 is trusted only for DAI.
That’s just how I set up the network, but
there are other options too.
The most important thing is to make sure that
the interface connected to the router, G0/2,
is trusted for both DAI and DHCP snooping,
but G0/1 could be trusted or untrusted, that
choice is up to you.
Finally, let’s see if the PCs can successfully
get IP addresses via DHCP and then ping the
default gateway.
So, I’ll go into PC1 and change this gateway
setting from static to DHCP, and that should
automatically change the FastEthernet0 setting
to DHCP too, and it does.
Now I’ll do that on PC2.
Change from static to DHCP.
And on PC3, too.
Now I’ll go into the CLI of PC1.
And here we can see its IP address, so it
has successfully gotten an IP address via
DHCP.
Let’s see if it’s allowed to ping.
If not, there is likely a problem with DAI.
I’ll ping R1.
PING 192.168.1.1.
Okay it works, looks good.
So, in this lab we configured DHCP, DHCP snooping,
and then dynamic ARP inspection.
As I said at the beginning, unfortunately
not all commands are supported in packet tracer,
but you can still practice the basics.
That’s all for this lab.
Now let’s take a look at a lab in Boson
Software’s NetSim for CCNA.